>> Evgenii Ray: So, let's try now to
simulate the interview environment and
design some complex app from scratch.
So, we are going to look at
the Twitter-like news feed problem.
So, a few things to know about the system
design interview is usually that
they usually have around 35-45 minutes.
To design the app, and
it's a very limited timeframe,
you'll not be able to handle all
the cases and explain every point.
So you need to make sure that
you commit to requirements
that you actually can
complete on the board.
So make sure that you're not over
committing because if you're over
committing in terms of things you want
to design then it won't look good.
So first you always start
with the requirements,
you need to understand what you're
trying to build and design.
So since we know the problem,
it's the Twitter like news feed, so
let's define this requirements
here in the board.
>> Evgenii Ray: So first of all,
I think it will be useful for
us to have some simple mock up of
the app that we're trying to build.
So let's have a mock up section, and so
the newsfeed is basically
the list where we render
the stories, right, one after another.
And the two key characteristics here that
the stories are loaded dynamically and
we have unlimited number of stories.
So let's mock this up, so
we have a few stories,
story one, story two,
story three, and story four.
And all the stories are rendered
from top to bottom, and
that's also mark them as one,
as two, as three, and as four.
So this can serve us as a mockup, now,
let's list all the requirements
to our newsfeed.
So first of all, we already said
that the stories render from
top to bottom and they might be
an infinite number of stories.
>> Evgenii Ray: So the second one
that is infinite number of stories.
>> Evgenii Ray: Also, our story can
also contain some media content, so
we can probably attach some images or
the videos.
So I would limit this design to image only
to make sure that we cover everything.
So let's say we want to support the media,
and
we'll list images as a supported media.
>> Evgenii Ray: So this is
the basic requirements for the app,
you also have a non-functional
requirements section where you describe
how your application should find,
like some additional technical details
how your application should function.
And let's call it non-functional and
the first requirement will be
that usually in the news feed,
is used on the mobile devices
because most of the social
network content now is
consumed from the mobiles.
So we need to make sure that our news feed
works properly on the mobile and desktop.
>> Evgenii Ray: And as a result, since
we're expected to use our application on
a mobile device,
we are constrained on the network vendor.
We can expect that our user
may have a slow 3G connection,
so we should be network efficient.
>> Evgenii Ray: And last thing I'd like to
mention is, since we also use our newsfeed
on a mobile, we need to think
about the performance of the app.
So we need to make sure that
our infinitely rendered list
doesn't impact the CPU and the memory and
we don't consume too much.
So this means that we should be CPU and
memory efficient.
>> Evgenii Ray: And the last thing
that we may add to this design is,
usually when you go on a plane or
on a train, you may not have the network.
But I still want to check my
stories that are already loaded, so
let's have the offline support
>> Evgenii Ray: Okay, so
now we're have all our basic requirements
that we want to complete for this design.
Let's start with our mock up, and
let's try to understand, first,
how can we optimize
the rendering of this mock up?
So first of all, since we expect to
have the infinite number of the stories,
let me quickly clean this up because
we will need some space around here.
>> Evgenii Ray: So we expect that we
have unlimited number of stories to
be rendered on the device.
So the one way to achieve that is
to implement the virtualization and
how the virtualization is done.
So we need to register two observers,
one at the top and one at the bottom.
>> Evgenii Ray: So we're also gonna
use the concept of the viewport,
this green line will tell
us where the view port is.
So when we render our stories and
the view port touches the bottom observer,
this means that we need
to load a new page.
So, how are we going to
implement the virtualization?
So the way how we could potentially
implement the virtualization is to move
this elements out of the normal flow
using the absolute positioning.
This way we can limit the number
of mutations and reflows by moving
the Selma to separate stacking context for
the absolute positioning.
So we've registered two observers now and
we moved all our stories to
separate stacking context, but
now we need to detect the position and
render them absolutely.
So for that,
we're gonna use the CSS transformation
because CSS transformation utilizes
the optimized reflow pipeline.
So, the way we calculate the stories,
the story position,
is we take the previous
y position of the ESFRI
then we plus the margin.
Which is ESFRI, plus the height
of the next story, which is 84.
And we use a CSS transformation for
that, since we use the CSS
transformation, we use we
utilize the optimize pipeline.
And we make sure that our
stories render via GPU,
so we select these two stories and
recycle them to the bottom.
So basically this stories
will appear here.
>> Evgenii Ray: And now,
we need to move our observer, so
we'll move our bottom
observer to the bottom, and
here we're gonna use the top observer,
so here now we will have empty space.
>> Evgenii Ray: So,
this is the empty area.
>> Evgenii Ray: And the way we can
maintain the scroll bar here is
by simulating the height of the container.
So we always know the Scroll
height of the container, so
we can use the property scroll height and
apply the CSS style to that.
CSS styles to the main container, so the
main container always knows the styles,
the height, yep.
>> Speaker 2: How would this work
if you had varying height cards?
>> Speaker 2: Is it presumed fixed height?
>> Evgenii Ray: Yeah, no, it would work
the same way because since you protest
the card one by one, you always take in
account the height of the previous card.
Because you're in the formula,
you use the height of the card,
and the card can be different in the size,
so it will work for the dynamic sizes too.
So the way we can handle the rendering,
for instance,
if we squeeze the content and
now the card increased.
In this case we'll have to trigger
the rendering off the virtual list so
everything is positioned correctly.
Okay, now we have the mockup and also
we explained how everything will work,
so the bottom observer will take the
position of the last element in the list.
And the top observer will take the
position of the first element in the list
and they will also be moved
using the CSS transformation.
So if we look at the data,
how the data would look like,
so basically we have an array of our data,
which is d1, d2, d3, d4, and
then we also have a d5 and d6.
When we do initial render, we render
it the first page of the data and
the second page of the data, so
this is the page 1, this is the page 2.
So when we trigger the bottom observer,
so we move the start pointer.
Before it was here, here was the start,
so we moved it by plus 1,
so now it starts in that page 2.
And to load this chunk of data
removed our end pointer to the page 3,
this is how we maintain
the sliding window in the memory.
So in the memory we'll have our data
array and we can basically move.
So once we loaded the data, we don't
really need to load it one more time.
We can utilize the cache
data from the global state,
do we just move around with the start and
end pointers.
So this is how we would
optimize the virtual list.